Improvements for Problem guideline (#826)
zalando/restful-api-guidelines: chapters/http-status-codes-and-errors.adoc

define the following approach:

* A batch or bulk request *always* responds with HTTP status code {207}

> unless a non-item-specific failure occurs.

Reviewer: Don't remove the leading spaces -- they are needed for formating

== {MUST} support problem JSON

{RFC-9457}[RFC 9457] defines a Problem JSON object using the media type
`application/problem+json` to provide an extensible human and machine readable
failure information beyond the HTTP response status code to transports the
failure kind (`type` / `title`) and the failure cause and location (`instant` /
`detail`). To make best use of this additional failure information, every
endpoints must be capable of returning a Problem JSON on client usage errors
({4xx} status codes) as well as server side processing errors ({5xx} status

> codes).

Reviewer: Let's keep this paragraph.

> * Client applications: to inform users about errors (in user interface) and to

Reviewer: The problem object is provided for developers, not for application and UI users. 
I would dismiss this and the above additions.

> ==== Problem schema members, supported by the API guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Problem object specification
```

> Problem detail objects can have the following members described in the OpenAPI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Problem object is specified in the OpenAPI
```

schema definition
https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/models/problem-1.0.1.yaml[on
GitHub].

> **Note:** If a member's value type does not match the specified type,
> the member MUST be ignored -- i.e., processing will continue as if
> the member had not been present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If a field value does not match the specified type,
it MUST be ignored -- i.e., processing will continue as if
the field had not been provided.
```

Reviewer: Better delete it here -- this aspect is already addressed below.

> {RFC-9457}[RFC 9457] encourages that problem types are URI

Reviewer: The old wording is IMO clearer.

== {MUST} support problem JSON

{RFC-9457}[RFC 9457] defines a Problem JSON object using the media type
`application/problem+json` to provide a standardized format for expressing
errors in API responses. It serves several purposes:

* Developers: to debug, diagnose and resolve issues during API integration or
  operation
* Client applications: to inform users about errors (in user interface) and to
  support automated processing and error handling when appropriate.

==== Problem schema members, suppported by the API guidelines
Problem detail objects can have the following members.

**Note:** If a member's value type does not match the specified type,
the member MUST be ignored -- i.e., processing will continue as if
the member had not been present.

> ===== status (integer)

Reviewer: I think we should avoid specification of the problem object in the GUI guideline redundantly (and possibly inconsistently) to the open-source specification in https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/models/problem-1.0.1.yaml 

Instead we should clearly refer to it and update it as part of the PR, if helpful. 
It also allows us to better understand the differences.

Reviewer 2: I agree that we should avoid redundancies, but having it written out in the guidelines makes it easier to read than just pointing to the file. Not sure what the best way of doing this is, though.

*Hint:* The use of https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-4.3[absolute
URIs] is not forbidden but strongly discouraged. If you use absolute URIs,
please reference
https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/models/problem-1.0.1.yaml#/Problem[problem-1.0.1.yaml#/Problem]
instead.

==== Usage of Problem Object
Clients may utilize properties in the Problem Object, particularly those
documented in the API specification. However, they *should not* depend on these
properties being present or having specific values.

> The examples of such cases are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients may use, but *should be robust and not* depend on the Problem 
properties being present or having specific values of specific types.
The examples of such cases are:
```

- response might be created by infrastructure components (and have a different
response format, comparing to the guidelines)
- response might be created by a service that is unable to comply with the
guidelines due to certain error situations

In cases where the Problem Object lacks the required information, clients must
implement fallback mechanisms, defaulting to reasonable behavior similar to
handling errors without a Problem Object provided.

The OpenAPI schema definition of the Problem JSON object can be found
https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/models/problem-1.0.1.yaml[on
GitHub]. You can reference it by using:

[source,yaml]
----
responses:
  503:
    description: Service Unavailable
    content:
      "application/problem+json":
        schema:
          $ref: 'https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/models/problem-1.0.1.yaml#/Problem'
----

> 

Reviewer: Should be moved to the Problem object Specification above.

*Hint:* The media type `application/problem+json` is often not implemented as
a subset of `application/json` by libraries and services, thus clients need to
include `application/problem+json` in the {Accept}-Header to trigger delivery
of the extended failure information.

> ==== Automated processing of Problem Object on client side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Client processing of Problem Object
```

Reviewer: The client aspects mentioned in the sub-chapter above should be also mentioned here, shouldn't it?

Problem details are often not described explicitly in the API and may evolve
over time.

Unless the API defines and enumerates stable values for `type` and `instance`
with clear semantics, these fields *should not* be relied upon for client-side
automated decisions.

The following guidelines offer best practices for utilizing type in automated
processing:

1. Property `type` may be used by clients to make automatic decisions in
certain failure modes. The `title` property serves as a concise,
human-readable summary of the type. It is particularly helpful for debugging
and serves as an engineer-readable shorthand for the problem type.

2. Clients may use these fields to drive automated actions if the API
explicitly defines the semantics of `type` and `instance` and enumerates
stable values. This can be achieved by extending the Problem JSON object and
associating an x-extensible-enum with the type property.

3. Clients must handle scenarios where the type is absent or unrecognized and
fallback to default behaviors.

4. For collections of related APIs, using shared type values for similar errors
and distinct values for different errors simplifies automated processing and

> error handling for clients working across APIs.

Reviewer: This is not a hint for the clients, but for the servers is it? 
It is unclear for me, and I not sure we should give this hint.

*Note:* Include descriptions for each known error that can happen directly in
the specification or reference external documentation to clarify their meanings
and intended use.

==== Extensions of Problem Object schema
APIs can define custom fields in the Problem Object to provide more context
to meet specific application needs.
The custom fields should not conflict with the standard fields.
To extend the Problem Object, the API specification must define the custom
Problem, which would include Problem object members and custom ones. The
custom Problem can be used in the API specification as a reference, same as
a standard Problem object.
Example:
[source,yaml]
----
components:
  schemas:
    Problem:
      type: object
      properties:
        type:
          type: string
          format: uri
          example: "https://example.com/errors/invalid-parameter"
        title:
          type: string
          example: "Invalid Request Parameter"
        status:
          type: integer
          example: 400
        detail:
          type: string
          example: "The 'color' parameter is invalid"

    CustomProblem:
      allOf:

>         - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Problem"

Reviewer: Why not simply reference to the standard definition?
